CONTRIBUTING.adoc, before:

= Contributing to Plugin Health Scoring

This page provides information about contributing to the Plugin Health Scoring code base.

== Getting started

The project is using Maven with Java 17 and Yarn to be built.
The entire build process can be handled by Maven.
When building, Yarn will bundle the front-end files only.

. Clone the repository.
. Install tools
.. Java 17
.. Maven 3.8.6
Optionally, you can use the wrapper in the repository.
In that case, replace the `mvn` command by `./mvnw` in the command listed bellow.
.. Node 18.10.0 and Yarn 3.2.4
. Open the project in your favorite IDE.

== Building

If you simply want the project binary, run:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Dmaven.test.skip
----

=== Running locally

There are two ways to run the project locally.
Either way, the application requires some environment variables to be configured and a GitHub App.

* Environment variables:

[source,bash]
----
include::.env.example[]
----

* To create the GitHub App, please see link:[]https://docs.github.com/en/developers/apps/building-github-apps/creating-a-github-app

The application requires the following permissions:

* Repository content (read-only)

The private key needs to be converted with

[source,bash]
----
openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -outform PEM -in ORIGINAL_KEY.pem -out CONVERTED_KEY.pem -nocrypt
----

NOTE: You need to change `ORIGINAL_KEY` and `CONVERTED_KEY` with real values.

==== CLI

This method is preferred if you intend to submit any modifications to the project.

In one terminal, run:

[source,bash]
----
yarn install
yarn dev
----

and in a second terminal run:

[source,bash]
----
mvn spring-boot:run -Dskip.yarn
----

NOTE: Don't forget to set the required environment variables.

==== Docker Compose

If you want to simply run the project locally, you can run:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Dmaven.test.skip
docker compose up
----

NOTE: the required environment variables must be set in a file named `.env`.

== Testing change

The project has unit and integration tests.
You can run all those with

[source,bash]
----
mvn verify
----

WARNING: The integration tests requires Docker to be installed.

== Proposing changes

All proposed changes are submitted and reviewed through a GitHub pull request.
To submit a pull request:

. Create a branch prefixed with `feature/` for a new enhancement, `fix/` for a bugfix.
. Commit your changes to this new branch.
. Push the branch to your fork of the repository.
. In the GitHub Web UI, select the *New pull request* option.
. Fill in the pull request description.
. Click the _Create pull request_ button.

The pull request will be built in link:https://ci.jenkins.io[ci.jenkins.io].

Commit message:

Updates GitHub APP private key convertion and install setup

CONTRIBUTING.adoc, after:

= Contributing to Plugin Health Scoring

This page provides information about contributing to the Plugin Health Scoring code base.

== Getting started

The project is using Maven with Java 17 and Yarn to be built.
The entire build process can be handled by Maven.
When building, Yarn will bundle the front-end files only.

. Clone the repository.
. Install tools
.. Java 17
.. Maven 3.8.6
Optionally, you can use the wrapper in the repository.
In that case, replace the `mvn` command by `./mvnw` in the command listed bellow.
.. Node 18.10.0 and Yarn 3.2.4
. Open the project in your favorite IDE.

== Building

If you simply want the project binary, run:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Dmaven.test.skip
----

=== Running locally

There are two ways to run the project locally.
Either way, the application requires some environment variables to be configured and a GitHub App.

* Environment variables:

[source,bash]
----
include::.env.example[]
----

* To create the GitHub App, please see link:[]https://docs.github.com/en/developers/apps/building-github-apps/creating-a-github-app

The application requires the following permissions:

* Repository content (read-only)

Once the GitHub APP created, generate a private key.
It will be downloaded automatically.

Then you need to convert the downloaded key with this command:

[source,bash]
----
openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -outform PEM -in ORIGINAL_KEY.pem -out CONVERTED_KEY.pem -nocrypt
----

NOTE: You need to change `ORIGINAL_KEY` and `CONVERTED_KEY` with real values.

This final file is the one to point to in `GITHUB_APP_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH` environment variable.

Finally, you need to install the GitHub APP on your GitHub user.
In the GitHub App configuration page, find the *Install App* like on the left side menu.


==== CLI

This method is preferred if you intend to submit any modifications to the project.

In one terminal, run:

[source,bash]
----
yarn install
yarn dev
----

and in a second terminal run:

[source,bash]
----
mvn spring-boot:run -Dskip.yarn
----

NOTE: Don't forget to set the required environment variables.

==== Docker Compose

If you want to simply run the project locally, you can run:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Dmaven.test.skip
docker compose up
----

NOTE: the required environment variables must be set in a file named `.env`.

== Testing change

The project has unit and integration tests.
You can run all those with

[source,bash]
----
mvn verify
----

WARNING: The integration tests requires Docker to be installed.

== Proposing changes

All proposed changes are submitted and reviewed through a GitHub pull request.
To submit a pull request:

. Create a branch prefixed with `feature/` for a new enhancement, `fix/` for a bugfix.
. Commit your changes to this new branch.
. Push the branch to your fork of the repository.
. In the GitHub Web UI, select the *New pull request* option.
. Fill in the pull request description.
. Click the _Create pull request_ button.

The pull request will be built in link:https://ci.jenkins.io[ci.jenkins.io].
